# DSC-478
DSC 478 - Final Project
# Executive Summary
The competition in the airline industry is fierce and it is increasingly difficult to obtain an edge. The introduction of machine learning applications in business brings both the opportunities to get more competitive, but also to challenges to keep up with the industry leaders. This paper presents an application of classification techniques in the airline industry. The goal of our classification algorithms is not only to predict the customer satisfaction based on the common metrics most airlines track about their customers, but also to understand which factors are the most important to keep the customers loyal.

A promising classification method in the study involved using a decision tree algorithm. The decision tree helped differentiate which features were most able to classify passengers as satisfied or dissatisfied. In doing so, it also helps form a profile of the passengers for each satisfaction class. Satisfied passengers tended to be business travels and make up 92% of all satisfied customers. Additionally, they leaned towards in-flight convenience features as well as ease-of-boarding features. Some of these features are in-flight Wi-Fi, in-flight entertainment, and online boarding.

The airlines industry should adopt ensemble tree models for classification problems since these models have high accuracy, are very fast, and efficient at classification. By adopting tree models the airline industry can quickly realize elements in their service that are heavily influencing a customers’ complete experience. In this case, the data showed that convenience features can heavily influence the total experience of a customer. This is understandable since the majority of satisfied customers were business travelers and are expected to travel much more often than a personal traveler. The need for simplicity is expected throughout their whole trip from arriving at the airport, boarding their plan and the flight itself.

First, we identified a model to act as a benchmark model. It was the broadest application against which we could start from the least complex to most complex. We seem to have found some latent factors that lean towards convenience features. In the process of examining an efficient classification algorithm it laid the groundwork to finding potential latent factors that may also be influencing customer satisfaction.  Next step for continued research is understanding the contributing factors for companies to channel their investments towards the right sections
